applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/custom_processes/README.md, before:

# Custom processes

This folder contains the custom processes that are used in the GeoMechanicsApplication. Processes are commands that can be executed during several stages of a calculation. In the GeoMechanicsApplication, their main use is to apply boundary conditions and/or constraints , but there are more specific examples (e.g. the K0 procedure, nodal extrapolation, or (de)activation of certain parts of the model). Since this effort is a work in progress, not all processes are documented yet. If you have any questions, please contact the maintainers (@KratosMultiphysics/geomechanics on GitHub).

Documented processes:
- [$c-\phi$ reduction process](#c-phi-reduction-process)
- [GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess](#extrapolation-of-integration-values-to-nodes)
- [ResetDisplacementProcess](#reset-displacement-process)
- [$K_0$ procedure process](#K_0-procedure-process)

## $c-\phi$ reduction process
For the assessment of a safety factor to characterize slope stability, a Mohr-Coulomb material based $c-\phi$ reduction 
scheme is implemented. The apex of the Mohr-Coulomb cone shaped failure surface is kept in the same position, 
therefore both $c$ and $\tan \phi$ will diminish at the same rate.

### Incrementation scheme
The $c-\phi$ reduction process requires the existence of a stress state in your model and the use of a Mohr-Coulomb material 
(in a UDSM or UMAT formulation). Preferably this stress state is an equilibrium state, such that no stresses in integration 
points violate the given Mohr-Coulomb failure surface. During the stage with the active $c-\phi$ reduction process, 
$c$ and $\tan \phi$ will be incrementally reduced in steps with an initial size of 10%. For each reduction step stresses are 
mapped back onto the reduced Mohr-Coulomb yield surface and equilibrium is found if possible. When equilibrium is no longer 
found in the given number of iterations for the Newton-Raphson scheme, the step is retried with a halved reduction increment.
This is repeated until the allowed number of cycles for a step is reached or until the reduction factor drops below 0.01.
As the stepping is "mis"using the time-stepping of the GeoMechanics application, reaching the end_time also terminates the
reduction process.

### Safety factor
The safety factor is computed as the inverse of the reduction factor [[1]](#1):

$$SF = \frac{1}{\alpha}$$

where the reduction factor $\alpha$ is the ratio of the found critical values for cohesion and friction angle $c_c$ or $\phi_c$ and original material parameters.

$$\alpha = \frac{c_c}{c} = \frac{\tan \phi_c}{\tan \phi}$$ 

## Extrapolation of integration values to nodes 
The `GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess` can be used as a post-processing step to acquire nodal data for variables that are stored at the integration points. This is useful for visualization services which expect nodal data.

Conceptually the process consists of the following steps:
1. Determine a count for each node, to keep track of how many elements will contribute to the nodal value.
2. Calculate the extrapolation matrix, to distribute the integration values to the nodes.
3. Calculate the integration point values of the variables of interest, by using the `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` function of the `Element` class.
4. For each element, distribute the integration point values to their respective nodes by multiplying the extrapolation matrix with the integration point values.
5. Divide the nodal values by the count to get the average value.

### Restrictions
Currently, this process is only implemented for 3-noded or 6-noded `Triangle` and 4-noded or 8-noded `Quadrilateral` elements in 2D. The extrapolation is always done linearly. For the higher order 6-noded and 8-noded elements, this means the corner nodes are extrapolated as usual, but the mid-side nodes are extrapolated using linear combinations of the extrapolation contributions for the corner nodes.

### Usage
The process is defined as follows in json (also found in some of the [integration tests](../tests/test_integration_node_extrapolation)):
```json
{
  "python_module": "geo_extrapolate_integration_point_values_to_nodes_process",
  "kratos_module": "KratosMultiphysics.GeoMechanicsApplication",
  "process_name":  "GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess",
  "Parameters":    {
    "model_part_name":   "ModelPartName",
    "list_of_variables": ["Variable1", "Variable2", "Variable3"]
  }
}
```
Where the `model_part_name` should contain the name of the model part where the extrapolation is to be performed for the variables in `list_of_variables`. These variables could be of any type, as long as the `Element` class has an implementation of the `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` function for them.


When this process is added to the `ProjectParameters.json`, the variables specified in `list_of_variables` can be exported as nodal output (e.g. as `nodal_results` in the `GiDOutputProcess`). 

## Reset displacement process
The `ResetDisplacementProcess` can be used to change the reference point of the displacements to the displacement at the start of that stage.

### Requirements
For this process to work, the following requirements have to be met:
1. The elements in the model part that the process is applied to should have an implementation for `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` that calculates the PK2_STRESS_VECTOR as well as an overload of `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` that returns a list of ConstitutiveLaw::Pointer objects for each integration point.
2. The input type of the model can only be "rest" (short for restarted), to ensure that the state of the model is retained from the previous stage. The reason for this, is that the constitutive laws are used at the start of a state to calculate the initial stresses based on the history. If the model is not 'restarted', the constitutive laws will be cleared and the initial stresses can not be calculated correctly.
3. The ConstitutiveLaw used in the elements this process is applied to should use the `InitialState` to apply the initial stresses to the calculated stresses.


## $K_0$ procedure process
For the initialization of an in-situ stress field, the $K_0$ procedure derives the horizontal effective stresses from a field of vertical effective stresses.
Pre-requisite is a computed stress field with the desired normal effective stresses in the direction indicated with "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION".
The normal effective stress in "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION" remains as is.
Effective normal stresses in the other two directions are affected by the $K_0$ value, all shear stresses are erased.
A specialized method for computation of the stress field with normal effective stresses is steered with "use_standard_procedure".
When set to true, the material used for the modelpart used for the $K_0$ procedure process is changed to an incremental elastic material with constitutive tensor that has only zero off-diagonal terms and zero shear terms.
When the stress computation is completed, the original constitutive law is restored.

Depending on the given input parameters, the following scheme is adapted for computation of the $K_0$ value.
$K_0^{nc}$ is gotten from either "K0_NC" the material input file or by computation from input of "INDEX_OF_UMAT_PHI_PARAMETER" and "UMAT_PARAMETERS":

$$K_0^{nc} = 1.0 - \sin \phi$$

When the overconsolidation ratio ("OCR") and optionally the unloading-reloading Poisson's ratio $\nu_{ur}$ ("POISSON_UNLOADING_RELOADING") are supplied, the normal consolidation value $K_0^{nc}$ is modified:

$$K_0 = OCR.K_0^{nc} +  \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} ( OCR - 1 )$$

```math
\sigma^{'}_{initial} = \begin{bmatrix} {K_0 \sigma^{'}_{zz}} & 0 & 0 \\
                                        0 & {K_0 \sigma^{'}_{zz}} & 0 \\
                                        0 & 0 & {\sigma^{'}_{zz}} \end{bmatrix}
```

Alternatively, when the pre-overburden pressure "POP" is specified, the initial stress tensor becomes:

```math
\sigma^{'}_{initial} = \begin{bmatrix} {K_0^{nc} (\sigma^{'}_{zz} + POP )} - \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} POP & 0 & 0 \\
                                        0 & {K_0^{nc} (\sigma^{'}_{zz} + POP)} - \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} POP & 0 \\
                                        0 & 0 & {\sigma^{'}_{zz}} \end{bmatrix}
```

When the optional unloading-reloading Poisson's ratio is omitted, a default value $\nu_{ur} = 0$ is used such that the correction term drops to 0.

### Note:
After the stress adaptation by the $K_0$ procedure, the stress state may not be in equilibrium with the present external forces anymore. Equilibrium may be reached by performing a step without applying additional load. Reaching equilibrium may then be accomplished by movement.

### Usage
The process is defined as follows in "ProjectParameters.json" (also found in some of the [integration tests](../tests/test_k0_procedure_process)). Without the addition of this process, no adaptation of the horizontal stresses takes place.
```json
{
  "auxiliary_process_list": [
    {
      "python_module": "apply_k0_procedure_process",
      "kratos_module": "KratosMultiphysics.GeoMechanicsApplication",
      "process_name": "ApplyK0ProcedureProcess",
      "Parameters": {
        "model_part_name": "PorousDomain.porous_computational_model_part",
        "variable_name": "CAUCHY_STRESS_TENSOR",
        "use_standard_procedure": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
The "apply_k0_procedure_process" needs the following material parameter input to be added in the "MaterialParameters.json".
```json
{
  "Variables": {
    "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION":           1,
    "K0_NC":                       0.6,
    "UDSM_NAME"                :  "MohrCoulomb64.dll",
    "IS_FORTRAN_UDSM"          :  true,
    "INDEX_OF_UMAT_PHI_PARAMETER": 4,
    "UMAT_PARAMETERS"          :  [30000000,
                                   0.2,
                                   1000.0,
                                   30,
                                   0.0,
                                   1000],
    "OCR":                         1.4,
    "POISSON_UNLOADING_RELOADING": 0.35,
    "POP":                         800.0
  }
}
```

## References
<a id="1">[1]</a> Brinkgreve, R.B.J., Bakker, H.L., 1991. Non-linear finite element analysis of safety factors, Computer Methods and Advances in Geomechanics, Beer, Booker & Carterr (eds), Balkema, Rotterdam.

Commit message:

[GeoMechanicsApplication] Simplify reset displacement workflow (#13336)
* Changed the process to not needing IS_RESTARTED anymore
* Renamed process to reflect its function more accurately

applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/custom_processes/README.md, after:

# Custom processes

This folder contains the custom processes that are used in the GeoMechanicsApplication. Processes are commands that can be executed during several stages of a calculation. In the GeoMechanicsApplication, their main use is to apply boundary conditions and/or constraints , but there are more specific examples (e.g. the K0 procedure, nodal extrapolation, or (de)activation of certain parts of the model). Since this effort is a work in progress, not all processes are documented yet. If you have any questions, please contact the maintainers (@KratosMultiphysics/geomechanics on GitHub).

Documented processes:
- [$c-\phi$ reduction process](#c-phi-reduction-process)
- [GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess](#extrapolation-of-integration-values-to-nodes)
- [ApplyFinalStressesOfPreviousStageToInitialState](#apply-final-stresses-of-previous-stage-to-initial-state-process)
- [$K_0$ procedure process](#K_0-procedure-process)

## $c-\phi$ reduction process
For the assessment of a safety factor to characterize slope stability, a Mohr-Coulomb material based $c-\phi$ reduction 
scheme is implemented. The apex of the Mohr-Coulomb cone shaped failure surface is kept in the same position, 
therefore both $c$ and $\tan \phi$ will diminish at the same rate.

### Incrementation scheme
The $c-\phi$ reduction process requires the existence of a stress state in your model and the use of a Mohr-Coulomb material 
(in a UDSM or UMAT formulation). Preferably this stress state is an equilibrium state, such that no stresses in integration 
points violate the given Mohr-Coulomb failure surface. During the stage with the active $c-\phi$ reduction process, 
$c$ and $\tan \phi$ will be incrementally reduced in steps with an initial size of 10%. For each reduction step stresses are 
mapped back onto the reduced Mohr-Coulomb yield surface and equilibrium is found if possible. When equilibrium is no longer 
found in the given number of iterations for the Newton-Raphson scheme, the step is retried with a halved reduction increment.
This is repeated until the allowed number of cycles for a step is reached or until the reduction factor drops below 0.01.
As the stepping is "mis"using the time-stepping of the GeoMechanics application, reaching the end_time also terminates the
reduction process.

### Safety factor
The safety factor is computed as the inverse of the reduction factor [[1]](#1):

$$SF = \frac{1}{\alpha}$$

where the reduction factor $\alpha$ is the ratio of the found critical values for cohesion and friction angle $c_c$ or $\phi_c$ and original material parameters.

$$\alpha = \frac{c_c}{c} = \frac{\tan \phi_c}{\tan \phi}$$ 

## Extrapolation of integration values to nodes 
The `GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess` can be used as a post-processing step to acquire nodal data for variables that are stored at the integration points. This is useful for visualization services which expect nodal data.

Conceptually the process consists of the following steps:
1. Determine a count for each node, to keep track of how many elements will contribute to the nodal value.
2. Calculate the extrapolation matrix, to distribute the integration values to the nodes.
3. Calculate the integration point values of the variables of interest, by using the `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` function of the `Element` class.
4. For each element, distribute the integration point values to their respective nodes by multiplying the extrapolation matrix with the integration point values.
5. Divide the nodal values by the count to get the average value.

### Restrictions
Currently, this process is only implemented for 3-noded or 6-noded `Triangle` and 4-noded or 8-noded `Quadrilateral` elements in 2D. The extrapolation is always done linearly. For the higher order 6-noded and 8-noded elements, this means the corner nodes are extrapolated as usual, but the mid-side nodes are extrapolated using linear combinations of the extrapolation contributions for the corner nodes.

### Usage
The process is defined as follows in json (also found in some of the [integration tests](../tests/test_integration_node_extrapolation)):
```json
{
  "python_module": "geo_extrapolate_integration_point_values_to_nodes_process",
  "kratos_module": "KratosMultiphysics.GeoMechanicsApplication",
  "process_name":  "GeoExtrapolateIntegrationPointValuesToNodesProcess",
  "Parameters":    {
    "model_part_name":   "ModelPartName",
    "list_of_variables": ["Variable1", "Variable2", "Variable3"]
  }
}
```
Where the `model_part_name` should contain the name of the model part where the extrapolation is to be performed for the variables in `list_of_variables`. These variables could be of any type, as long as the `Element` class has an implementation of the `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` function for them.


When this process is added to the `ProjectParameters.json`, the variables specified in `list_of_variables` can be exported as nodal output (e.g. as `nodal_results` in the `GiDOutputProcess`). 

## Apply Final Stresses Of Previous Stage To Initial State Process
The `ApplyFinalStressesOfPreviousStageToInitialState` process can be used to change the reference point of the displacements to the displacement at the start of that stage. This process only needs to be applied to structural and interface elements, to convert the displacements from a total displacement to a staged displacement.

### Requirements
For this process to work, the following requirements have to be met:
1. The elements in the model part that the process is applied to should have an implementation for `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` that calculates the PK2_STRESS_VECTOR as well as an overload of `CalculateOnIntegrationPoints` that returns a list of ConstitutiveLaw::Pointer objects for each integration point.
2. The ConstitutiveLaw used in the elements this process is applied to should use the `InitialState` to apply the initial stresses to the calculated stresses.


## $K_0$ procedure process
For the initialization of an in-situ stress field, the $K_0$ procedure derives the horizontal effective stresses from a field of vertical effective stresses.
Pre-requisite is a computed stress field with the desired normal effective stresses in the direction indicated with "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION".
The normal effective stress in "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION" remains as is.
Effective normal stresses in the other two directions are affected by the $K_0$ value, all shear stresses are erased.
A specialized method for computation of the stress field with normal effective stresses is steered with "use_standard_procedure".
When set to true, the material used for the modelpart used for the $K_0$ procedure process is changed to an incremental elastic material with constitutive tensor that has only zero off-diagonal terms and zero shear terms.
When the stress computation is completed, the original constitutive law is restored.

Depending on the given input parameters, the following scheme is adapted for computation of the $K_0$ value.
$K_0^{nc}$ is gotten from either "K0_NC" the material input file or by computation from input of "INDEX_OF_UMAT_PHI_PARAMETER" and "UMAT_PARAMETERS":

$$K_0^{nc} = 1.0 - \sin \phi$$

When the overconsolidation ratio ("OCR") and optionally the unloading-reloading Poisson's ratio $\nu_{ur}$ ("POISSON_UNLOADING_RELOADING") are supplied, the normal consolidation value $K_0^{nc}$ is modified:

$$K_0 = OCR.K_0^{nc} +  \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} ( OCR - 1 )$$

```math
\sigma^{'}_{initial} = \begin{bmatrix} {K_0 \sigma^{'}_{zz}} & 0 & 0 \\
                                        0 & {K_0 \sigma^{'}_{zz}} & 0 \\
                                        0 & 0 & {\sigma^{'}_{zz}} \end{bmatrix}
```

Alternatively, when the pre-overburden pressure "POP" is specified, the initial stress tensor becomes:

```math
\sigma^{'}_{initial} = \begin{bmatrix} {K_0^{nc} (\sigma^{'}_{zz} + POP )} - \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} POP & 0 & 0 \\
                                        0 & {K_0^{nc} (\sigma^{'}_{zz} + POP)} - \frac{\nu_{ur}}{1 - \nu_{ur}} POP & 0 \\
                                        0 & 0 & {\sigma^{'}_{zz}} \end{bmatrix}
```

When the optional unloading-reloading Poisson's ratio is omitted, a default value $\nu_{ur} = 0$ is used such that the correction term drops to 0.

### Note:
After the stress adaptation by the $K_0$ procedure, the stress state may not be in equilibrium with the present external forces anymore. Equilibrium may be reached by performing a step without applying additional load. Reaching equilibrium may then be accomplished by movement.

### Usage
The process is defined as follows in "ProjectParameters.json" (also found in some of the [integration tests](../tests/test_k0_procedure_process)). Without the addition of this process, no adaptation of the horizontal stresses takes place.
```json
{
  "auxiliary_process_list": [
    {
      "python_module": "apply_k0_procedure_process",
      "kratos_module": "KratosMultiphysics.GeoMechanicsApplication",
      "process_name": "ApplyK0ProcedureProcess",
      "Parameters": {
        "model_part_name": "PorousDomain.porous_computational_model_part",
        "variable_name": "CAUCHY_STRESS_TENSOR",
        "use_standard_procedure": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
The "apply_k0_procedure_process" needs the following material parameter input to be added in the "MaterialParameters.json".
```json
{
  "Variables": {
    "K0_MAIN_DIRECTION":           1,
    "K0_NC":                       0.6,
    "UDSM_NAME"                :  "MohrCoulomb64.dll",
    "IS_FORTRAN_UDSM"          :  true,
    "INDEX_OF_UMAT_PHI_PARAMETER": 4,
    "UMAT_PARAMETERS"          :  [30000000,
                                   0.2,
                                   1000.0,
                                   30,
                                   0.0,
                                   1000],
    "OCR":                         1.4,
    "POISSON_UNLOADING_RELOADING": 0.35,
    "POP":                         800.0
  }
}
```

## References
<a id="1">[1]</a> Brinkgreve, R.B.J., Bakker, H.L., 1991. Non-linear finite element analysis of safety factors, Computer Methods and Advances in Geomechanics, Beer, Booker & Carterr (eds), Balkema, Rotterdam.
