applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_partially_saturated/README.md, before:

# Test Cases for partially saturated flow
## Saturated below phreatic level

**Author:** [Mohamed Nabi](https://github.com/mnabideltares)

**Source files:** [Partially saturated flow](https://github.com/KratosMultiphysics/Kratos/tree/master/applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_partially_saturated)

## Case Specification
In this test case, a column of 1 x 5 m soil is considered (set between -5 m and 0 m). A phreatic line is set at the level of $y = -2$ m. The water pore pressure field is then calculated.
The simulation is done on a double stage process, and steady state Pw and U-Pw elements are considered. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D3N (for Pw) and 2D6N(for Pw and U-Pw) triangular elements. The pressure distribution along the column is then evaluated with its alalytical result.

## Results

The picture below illustrates the pressure contours resulting from the simulation (as an example the 2D6N for Pw is shown below).

<img src="documentation_data/test_saturated_below_phreatic_level_pw_triangle6n_results.png" alt="Pressure field for case of saturation below phreatic level at stage 2" title="Pressure field at stage 2" width="600">

Commit message:

2 tests are added for U-Pw small strain element

applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_partially_saturated/README.md, after:

# Test Cases for partially saturated flow
## Saturated below phreatic level

**Author:** [Mohamed Nabi](https://github.com/mnabideltares)

**Source files:** [Partially saturated flow](https://github.com/KratosMultiphysics/Kratos/tree/master/applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_partially_saturated)

## Case Specification
In this test case, a column of 1 x 5 m soil is considered (set between -5 m and 0 m). A phreatic line is set at the level of $y = -2$ m. The water pore pressure field is then calculated.
The simulation is done on a double stage process, and steady state Pw and U-Pw elements are considered. This test is conducted for various configurations, including

- 2D3N: for Pw and U-Pw small strain elements
- 2D6N: for Pw and U-Pw small strain and U-Pw different order elements.

The pressure distribution along the column is then evaluated with its alalytical result.

## Results

The picture below illustrates the pressure contours resulting from the simulation (as an example the 2D6N for Pw is shown below).

<img src="documentation_data/test_saturated_below_phreatic_level_pw_triangle6n_results.png" alt="Pressure field for case of saturation below phreatic level at stage 2" title="Pressure field at stage 2" width="600">
