.TH MPE_Describe_info_event 4 "6/15/2009" " " "MPE"
.SH NAME
MPE_Describe_info_event \-  Describe the attributes of an event with byte informational data in MPI_COMM_WORLD. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
int MPE_Describe_info_event( int eventID,
                             const char *name, const char *color,
                             const char *format )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B eventID       
- event number for the event.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B name          
- name of the event,
the maximum length of the NULL-terminated string is,
sizeof(CLOG_DESC), 32.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B color         
- color of the event,
the maximum length of the NULL-terminated string is,
sizeof(CLOG_COLOR), 24.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B format        
- printf style %-token format control string for the event,
the maximum length of the NULL-terminated string is,
sizeof(CLOG_FORMAT), 40.  If format is NULL, it is
equivalent to calling MPE_Describe_event(). The fortran
interface of this routine considers the zero-length string,
"", and single-blank string, " ", as NULL.
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
Adds a event definition to the logfile. The function is provided
for backward compatibility purpose.  Users are urged to
use 'MPE_Describe_comm_event' instead.

This function is threadsafe.

.SH NOTES ON STORAGE FORMAT CONTROL SUPPORT
The format control string is printf like, e.g. "Comment = %s".
All the MPE %-token storage support is provided by SLOG-2.  That is
whatever supported by SLOG-2 will be supported by MPE.  Currently,
the following is supported.

%s : variable length string, byte buffer size is length of string + 2.

%h : 2-byte integer, printed as decimal integer, byte buffer size is 2.

%d : 4-byte integer, printed as decimal integer, byte buffer size is 4.

%l : 8-byte integer, printed as decimal integer, byte buffer size is 8.

%x : 4-byte integer, printed as hexadecimal integer, byte buffer size is 4.

%X : 8-byte integer, printed as hexadecimal integer, byte buffer size is 8.

%e : 4-byte float, printed as decimal float, byte buffer size is 4.

%E : 8-byte float, printed as decimal float, byte buffer size is 8.
.br


.SH SEE ALSO
MPE_Log_get_solo_eventID(), MPE_Describe_comm_event() 
.br
.SH LOCATION
../src/logging/src/mpe_log.c
