---
title: Overview
keywords: mpm
tags: [mpm]
sidebar: mpm_application
summary: 
---

This section provides an introduction to the files that are required to perform a numerical simulation based on the **Material Point Method** (MPM) implemented in the `MPMApplication` available in the Kratos Multiphysics framework.

The essential files for a Kratos simulation are the following.

* **Main simulation script** `MainKratos.py`. This Python script serves as the entry point for your simulation. It typically initializes the Kratos environment, loads problem-specific parameters, and defines the execution workflow. This file is discussed [MainKratos.py](mainkratos).
* **Project parameters file** `ProjectParameters.json`: This `JSON` file contains the key configuration details for the simulation, such as solver settings, processes defining the initial and boundary conditions and output processes necessary for the post-process of the solution. This file is discussed in [json files: ProjectParameters.json](json#projectparametersjson).
* **Materials file** `ParticleMaterials.json`. This `JSON` file defines material properties associated with different parts of the model. This file is discussed [here](json#particlematerialsjson).
* **Background definition file** `file_name_Grid.mdpa`. This model part file defines the geometry and mesh of the background grid where the material points move. The `.mdpa` file format is specific to Kratos and provides the structural foundation for the simulation domain. This file is discussed [here](mdpa#file_name_gridmdpa).
* **Material Point body definition file** `file_name_Body.mdpa`. This model part defines the geometry and mesh of the body to be discretised by means of material points. This file is discussed [here](mdpa#file_name_bodymdpa).

Each of these file plays a critical role in defining, building, solving, and post-processing the problem. The following sections provide a detailed explanation of each file, focusing in particular on their role within the `MPMApplication`and including examples and key configuration settings for common use cases.

For a more general introduction to these input files, including aspects that apply to all the Kratos applications, refer to [Kratos Crash Course: 2 - Kratos Basics](../../../Kratos/For_Users/Crash_Course/2_Basics).

These input files are typically generated by means of [GiD](https://www.gidsimulation.com), a pre-processing tool. A step-by-step tutorial on setting up a problem in GiD, generating the input files and running the simulation in `KratosMultiphysics`can be found in [Step-by-step Tutorial in GiD](../Step-by-step_Tutorial_in_GiD/introduction).